# Security Information and Event Management
## What does it do?
Software to analyse activity across a network.
It collects data from network devices (e.g Servers) and analyses to discover trends, detect threats and create alerts.

## How do they work?
Collect log and event data generated by other devices (Including things like Firewalls and Antivirus) and collecting it all in a central platform.

Sorts data into categories identifies which activity could be a threat.

Each threat is flagged with a priority to signify which events are more likely to be genuine attacks.

For example 10 attempts in 10 mins would be low priority as it is likely a user who's forgotten their password. However, 100 failed attempts in 5 minutes is likely to be Brute Force attack. and would be marked as high priority.

## Example Tools
### Splunk

5 main functions: Index data, Search and Investigate, Add Knowledge, Monitor and Alert, Report and Analyse

Collects data  Find queries  Add knowledge (i.e date/time stamp)   Identify issues  Visualise reports 

Uses 3 main components: Indexers, forwarders and search heads:

        Forwarder: Used for data forwarding

        Indexer: Used for parsing and indexing data

        Search head: GUI using for searching, analysing and reporting
        
3 main roles: Admin, Power User:

        Admin: Has most permissions  Install apps, create knowledge objects for all users 
        
        Power: Create and share knowledge objects for users of an app and do real-time searches
        
        User: Can only see own knowledge and knowledge shared with them


### LogRhythm

### IBM QRadar

### AlienVault

